---
title: Day 1 History Emily
author: Zachary Sayyah
course: HIST101
source: KB20200823163139
---
# Intro

## About her
- She majored in war and some history stuff
    - Decided history wasn't enough to find out why people fight and kill each-other

## Expectations
- Readings are dense, so it isn't expected that you note and know every single detail.
    - Just make sure you're noting the big themes and ideas the author is trying to communicate
- She doesn't like talking alone for long amounts of time and prefers that we unmute and shout out
    - No need to raise hands to begin with.


## Course Focus
- We will be starting with the 1500's because that is where most scholars say is where the modern world system began
    - We will start with the 4 most populous regions in the world 
- We will start with Hegemony and competition in the early modern world
- Balance of power
- Ideologies and technologies
- Balance disrupted WW1 and it's aftermath
- Balance disrupted pt2 Fascism Communism, WW2 and the new international order (1920-1955)
    - This is where we will be writing the major research paper of the year
    - This is where we should be paying attention to what we are interested in.
- Bipolar times: Cold war, decolonization, and regional conflict (1955-2000)

By the end of this course we should understand what lead us to the place we are. Be critical of why stuff matters.

## Key Skills
- Use primary and secondary source evidence to craft historical arguments
    - Seeking to uncover both the general and specific causes of historical events.
    - Use and evaluate sources critically
    - This class will have us write a lot of essays
        - Be able to construct and defend arguments with explanatory power
            - Be able to explain why things happened the way they did and figure out how this helps us understand stuff.
        - Try to come up with our own theories and explanations of how the world works looking for patterns.
        - Express yourself in writing with clarity and logic
    - Look at different perspectives of sources

My in Class stuff dw about it
Guidelines:
- Military power
- Relative power of allies
- Power over people of the country
- Economic power
- Other countries economic dependence

Machevellie stuff
- Fear and love of a government are comparable when it comes to power over one's people. However, he argues that fear might be even stronger.
