---
title:  Hist Day one 
course: HIST201 
author: Huxley it
source: KB20200823163139 
---


`make sure to have arta rank our heights!`
## How to Read
- Focus on big picture
	- **Don't** worry about remembering dates
	- **Do** Focus on Trends, patterns, main points.


## The Modern World
---
#### Scope 
- To broad to focus on all
	- Roughly 1500
	- End at the cold war
	- Four regions hold most of the people
		- Europe, East Asia, South Asia, Middle East.

`INTERACTION BETWEEN STATES`

> heres a qoute!



### What we will cover
1. Hegemony 
2. Balance of power -> global order 
3. Ideologies and tech 
4. Disruption of balance, WW1 aftermath 
5. Disruption of balance part two, barley boogalo. Ft. Fascism, Communism, WW2. 
6. Bipolar world, cold war


### Key Skills

- General and specific causes of events 
- Using + evaluating evidence
- construct arguments 
- Learn to write well
- {Some other stuff}



## Freewrite time?!?
> What are the top six most powerful countries in the world? 
> *Arta*

`define power as: influence over other countries ` - important, according to arta
^ *in relation to other countries* 

military power not as important anymore

1. China -> Huge amount of people, resources, millitary. Govermental system allows for easy control and progress. Ie. building a hospital in three days. + trade leverage 
2. North Korea. -> Power by insanity. Nixon (I think) once made the argument that other countries will be more wary / respect the wishes of countries with people in office that are *crazy*, because they will do anything. Kimmy is that crazy man. 
3. USA -> Lots of resources, I don't really know how we compare as I am infested with propaganda. 
4. India. Massive amount of people, growing insanely quickly. Will be much more powerful very soon. 
5. Russia -> Idrk, look at the election? Powerful meddling 

***nukes make things weird***

Focus on transitions in this course

### How did someone in the 1500s define power?
[Reading](https://nuevaschool.instructure.com/courses/2821/modules/items/174842)
Machiavelli's ideas:
- How do his ideas of strength compare to yours?
- How relevant are his ideas today? 
	- if not, how has the world changed to make them so?
	- if so, how has the world stayed the same to make them so? 



> If Mercenary captains are capable men, then you cannot trust them, because they always aspire to their own greatness. But if the captain is not skilful, you are ruined in the usual way.


###### BRD (Breakout Room Discussion)
Less true with more bureaucracy in modern day 

---

Drones are very important, they control skies, and their pilots don't die when their drones do, they get better. *Remote* is a massive deal. 



