---
title: Watson Reading pages 1-3
author: Zachary Sayyah
course: HIST201
source: KB20200826173039
---
### Annotation
[Linked Here](https://google.com)

### Defining the Scale
- The author thinks that the words we use to describe bodies of government are far too oversimplified
    - They think that there are a lot of bodies that fall into the category of being between completely independent, and being one with other bodies.
        - These two absolutes never occur in practice
        - It is convenient to divide up this spectrum to make states more comparable into
            - independence
            - hegemony
            - dominion
            - empire

### How States Move along that Scale
- In all nations there is a struggle between just the right amount of freedom and the right amount of order
    - The desire to autonomous and also the desire to be independent of a greater body is usually the result of too many constraints and commitments
        - Such independence has drawbacks as it requires a nation to be militarily and economically independent
    - An independent nation will eventually make voluntary commitments to make easier the management of external affairs. This will move it further up the spectrum and make it less independent. 
        - The more intertwined a state is, the less independent it is.
        - The freedom of a state to do as they please is always limited by the pressure of interdependence.
        - These agreements/rules may start to be created by a hegemony
            - A larger organization agreed upon by these states to help them with external affairs.
                - This organization often begins to be designed to give more political power to a certain state or states
            - An acceptance of sorts is necessary for any hegemony to be considered Suzerain
        - Further along the spectrum we have a dominion
            -  A dominion is essentially where there's an authority that to some extent controls the internal affairs of other communities.
                -  They still retain their identity as separate states however
        - The most extreme case is an empire
            - In an empire, the greater organization controls the affairs of the smaller communities within it.
        - The amount that people believe in an authority is directly related to its power.
